Raggi Mudde (was confused for Ganji Oota; in Konkani peja seeth) 
banana leaf meals - it is a traditional way of eating meals. Back in the olden days it was a everyday practice now it is a way of having a sitdown meal in weddings.
Ramanagar Hills was where Sholay was shot
Mandeya is known sugarcane field and factories
Namkaran - when the child is born and is named; Chavalu - one year later the haircut; Moonji is the same as Brahmopadesham. The child is gifted with a gold chain gifted by grandparent.
Ghee Roast is quite popular with chicken and fish but is now also made with veg food
Phool Muddi - a event a day or week before wedding where family members get to know each other. At this event sambar is served with rice. Otherwise Sambar is not served. There is always a gravy and non-gravy based dish. Some dishes are: Chana Gashi, Kochiniya or tondokayi and bibbo based dishes, masala rice, rice with rasam or some form of Sambar. The dinner usually ends with Payasam and buttermilk.
Goli Bhaji or Manglore Bhaji
Mirchi - Mirchi bhaji
Fasting on ekadashi and feasting on duadesh
Women after their husband's death used to shave head, wore white clothes and kept their heads covered
Kristnashtmai - host idols and serve steamed channa mixed with coconut+sal+green chili
after death they take the dead person till the street's end and wait for sometime. In the olden times it was to wait in the hope that the person may come back to life.
Wild boar meat is a delicacy in weddings
Bevubella (neem and jaggery) is eaten during Ugadi (New Year), a small branch of Mango leaves is used as Toran. Usually after finishing prayer they take a sankalp.
Neerutumbuva haba:Also caled ganga worship done before Diwali. You fill a large jug of water and it is kept in the Bathroom and use that to take bath the next day. The day after Diwali is Bali Padiya when it is believed that Bali comes back to survey his kingdom and then promptly goes back to narak.
Women tend to pray to Tulsi on Fridays and Sundays to seek blessing. This is especially done in the month of Shravan. the first puja is done in the maternal home thereafter it is in the husband's home.
Parayana pujas to remove doshas.
Avoid gralic, onion, meat during Shravan months
Chiroti is of dessert, with sugar/jagerry with cold milk. It is a standard thing at weddings in South Karnataka.
Maddikeri is a summer retreat and also famous for pepper

