Breakfast staple in Surat is Locho.
Papdi is also famous as khakra but it doesn't come in different flavors.
Lijjat papad is ver famous.
Note to us: Modhera dance festival we need to know more about what happens there, what is being celebrated.
fixing of marriage is also called Meethi jeeb, rupiyo nariyal - give one coin and one nariyal.
Greetings- Jai <God's name> or "Kem Cho? Majama?"
Very famous eating place: Khetal Aapa tea stall (chain famous across all), Manik Chowk, Khawatri gali. 
Bandhani and Lehriyu are two commom types of sarees worn.
Gujaratis drape a saree differently.
Patan's Patola is a handwoven saree.
The other kinds of festive sarees are borrowed from other parts on India i.e., Salwaar Kameez
Kutchi saree is handcrafted with mirrors.
Rann Utsav is a very famous festival used to promote tourism
Maati kaam is very generic, it would be in almost all places.
Dinner is thepla, bhakri, parotta, dhebra, khakra, poha, khichdi.
Thepla is a standard travelling food.
Mohanthal is eaten whenever anything good happens.
On navratri's 8th day they make lapsi and offer to Kuldevi.
Shero is also a commom sweetdish.
Janoi is the thread ceremony.
Vad Savitri is a separate festival from karwachauth where they worship the Banyan tree for husband's long life.
Chello Diwas was a very famous Gujarati movies that was a turning point in Gujarati movies.
Dayro is a combination of drama, comedy and music. Done in village by erecting a tent on the cross-road.
Peetal vessel called Bedu was used to keep water. Now it is a prop that for folk-dance
Coming of age was celebrated by making lapsi
On the day of the death whole village was served khichdi
Galthuthi - giving jaggery water to newborn so that they may get the characteristics of the person who fed them.
Khodo Bharath - whisper advice in the mother's ear; a silk cloth is laid and supari and coin are kept with each step the mother takes. Once seated, the brother takes these and gives it to bua (girl's paternal aunt).
Supari and coin is kept before starting a business.
Kum Kalash - kalash which has swastik made of moong dal and then they keep supari and coin. this is done on the kitchen platform. Only after that does one enter the house or new shops.
Any festival they have a torn of asopallo leaves (3 taken together) tied not on a thread called nada-chadi (a red and yellow).
dodhiyu are the harder steps of Garba
Riverfront (Ahemdabad) and Akshardham temple (GandhiNagar) are very famous.
Mora vrat or Jaya parvati it is 5 days vrat done before Janmashtami. It is done without eating salt and Godess Parvati is worshiped. On the 5th day they stay awake all night (Jagran). 
Sheetlashatham: Goddess Sheetal is prayed to for taking care of one's family members' eyes. They make Kuler (atta, ghee and gud with coconut) as prasad, no food is cooked on that day. On the 6th day evening the chula is covered with cotton cloth (red and white) and only cold food (no hot food).
On Diwali they do chopda puja, done by bussiness people they pray and close the account books. It is the Gujarati new year so on the day of Diwali night they pray and close the books. There is 5 day break and then shops open it is called Labh Pacham. 3 Day before Diwali 11th day is when they put diya, then dhanteras and then kali chaudas. 
On Kali chaudas they do navyed in which they offer lapsi sweet bhath to the Kuldevi. They take vada and water in kalash to the crossroads to remove evil eyes.
Veer Pasali similar to Rakshabandhan. In which sutar thread is dipped in Turmeric, 7 knots are tied on this thread. Then this is tied to the brother on a particular Sunday which is before Rakshabandhan falls during the 15 days to full moon.

